and welcome
it's 26 of February 2020 this is three
and in web browsers and connectivity
specialty group interest group weekly
call with assortment of people and
topics
last week this call did not happen
because we've been on location as a team
I profess team week happened and we had
some problem solving sessions and
overall small hug time I want to quickly
go over two topics relevant to web
browsers that we've talked about during
the week first was we had a problem
solving sessions on defining the future
of browser integrations including
companion and Beyond and I believe
takeaways from that session so we had
all of those public deeds we do you know
maybe I'll link them later good question
yeah at the very least we should go
through and probably summarize the
decisions that were made yeah so
summarize decisions now like very
briefly and after the call I try to
either copy notes from those documents
here or just link to them so if anyone
who is interested in back who was
participated in the session or what
topics were discussed we had pretty good
notes from each the session on the
future of browser integrations was more
or less revisiting the history how our
browser extension evolved over time who
was the the majority of end-users and
what was the purpose and we've trying to
answer the question is it still the same
user base is it
serving the same purpose as before and
more or less we've agreed that it's
still a tool and add more technical
person because at least that person
needs to understand what
ipfs is or like ipfs node is and why
centralization matters so it's more
user-friendly than before and we now use
it mainly as a vessel for incentivizing
people to install a Kieffer's desktop so
and inste like when you install activex
as companion by default it expects you
to run go up events locally and there's
a welcome screen which asks you to
install go activist or aquifers desktop
and we believe going forward will
probably remove remove features from
companion or maybe like not remove
features remove them from companion and
either add them to desktop or web UI
mainly due to the fact how browser
extension ecosystem is changing Google
is working on manifest v3 which will
require us to rewrite compile for the
third time and then we want to provide a
similar user experience no matter if
users using chromium or Firefox browser
so the idea is to compact the surface of
user interfaces exposed by a companion
for example the upload screen probably
will eventually migrate into web UI
right now we've got sort of this duality
when we have a way of importing stuff
from companion but also a way of
importing it via web UI
I believe that's more or less the plan
remove like
so I when we add new functionality
expose new functionality it should be
only something that's possible in the
browser extension namely redirect to
local ironic node or installing like the
protocol handler if we have such API at
some point and all the user interfaces
should probably be dedicated to IP why
that was it for this session another
session was it shorter it was mostly an
effort to agree when do we switch to CID
v1 as a default and what we mean by
switching to CID you want and the
decision we've made is that we will
probably switch to switch the output for
example when you add something to idea
first using a give us add command and
then you get a CID that's the ID right
now we see a DV 0 which is multi hashing
base 58 we will switch that default
output to see a DV 1 in verse 42 and we
are planning to do that around go FS 0.6
what will happen is just changing just
upgrading that final CID from c dv0 to C
DV 1 we want to be changing internal
representation we want to be changing
the CID version of internal nodes in a
duck tree so some people may remember
that's right now you do something like
you can do like you first add you can do
I give us our CID version 1 and you will
get ready V 1 in the output the
difference is that it's not only
changing the version in the output it's
also changing the CID version used on
every node in the dog that's created and
that means the final multi hash in the
root will change
also due to the fact that those
intermediary intermediary nodes UCI dv1
it means we now have multi codec as a
part of CID and thanks to that the
leaves of that tree can be roll if so
the multi codec of those nodes will be
zero and that also changes all the
hashes that's why we won't be changing
this behaviour this flag will produce
the same CID we will just update like
help to be very clear on what CID
version does I believe that's was the
decision all in this session I probably
PR and Link those changes below another
session checkup who do want to take this
one yeah
so we talked a bit about running the DHT
and JSI PFS there is a multitude of
discussion there around like handling
the DHT in node or what have we do about
the DHT running in the browser and like
which context of the browser
are we running in you know an embedded
node are we running on the webpage and
so what we've kind of decided for now is
that with so many updates going on right
now in the go DHT to stabilize we're
going to focus on getting that out the
door
creating a spec from that and then
revisiting implementing the DHT likely
around mid year and with that will
determine like where are things going to
be because realistically on a webpage
running the DHT isn't terribly realistic
just because of the sheer number of
connections that we have to do even in
client mode to query but there are other
contexts ingest that it wouldn't make
sense to run a DHT so we want to make
that we are accounting for all of us and
in the mean time and in the mean time in
the web browser we are planning to
switch from WebSocket start to website
Stardust I believe the PR is still open
but it's yes I was I had a back that was
in my backlog I was behind on the roof
for that but went through that today so
I've got an initial review out for for
vash cough so will likely have some some
updates there we need to lock down how
we want to handle the security of like
client to server because when we get the
direct connect the final connection that
secured to Sakai oh but we have had some
discussions around start us running
because we are running when you connect
to the server that's currently going to
be over WebSockets are which is already
secure so if that also additionally runs
over Sakai oh we get take a performance
it there because we're double encrypting
but right now Stardust is actually not
restricted to WebSockets because it's a
reliable it's based off of a reliable
multi adder so it could be TCP it could
be WebRTC underlying and then run the
star test protocol on top of that so we
can either leave it open and then like
take the hit with the double encryption
and say okay if you want to dial over
start a server over TCP whoever TC you
can totally do that but then we would
need to lock that down more than likely
otherwise we risk getting really muddy
with configuration options or just what
it supports the other option is to just
lock it down and say no we only support
WebSockets tar that way well we don't or
WebSockets secure WebSockets so that we
don't have to worry about it and then we
can leave it plain text so we don't take
that hit on double encryption so we just
need to decide which path forward more
than likely our use case is we're really
trying to cover the use case of browser
to browser and browser knows discovering
browser notes
and so that's really the thing that we
should be optimizing for so we'll
probably end up just locking it down and
optimizing for those connections just
just to clarify in that president as our
C scenario we would not have double
encryption so this is this is a little
RTC so this would be WebSocket so
basically what that start is is we're
running over that relay as a web web
sock is here so that wouldn't be double
encryption from the browser to the
server so that would run over WebSockets
tar and then when we made the underlying
connection that still gets encrypted so
the underlying stream stays encrypted
but we're just saving on like the
connection to the server to negotiate
that contract and dial and then like as
we're streaming peers from that server
that would be only over the WebSocket
secure connection right but you were
just talking about whether or not we
expand start us to other connection
types yes yeah and whether or not those
would incur double encryption right and
that's really over that connection to to
this server so it doesn't make any
difference yeah because like it's going
to be double encrypted browser to
browser just because we're going to be
running sec I know it's really about the
initial connection of just just to the
server having that conversation thanks
for clarifying is it like the first type
of transports with this problem or do we
have any priors with like solving double
the encryption problem well like so
WebSockets star was also doing it was a
similar scenario that the big difference
is like we the reason like we're having
this problem with start us is that we're
basically running a the refactor is
running a lip p2p server rather than it
being like a socket IO server it's just
no this is a lip PDP server and it runs
socket connections so really using our
own tech to be the server so then we
just have to handle the take accepting
the WebSocket connection as the server
um a secure web socket connection so
having the actual like HTTP connection
in front so this is really why we're
getting into that potential of the
double encryption and having to deal
with that but there's there's no there's
no reason why why we have to have double
encryption is just doesn't work for
those transports to be aware of the
context that they're running in no they
don't we don't need to the underlying
transport it's already encrypted so we
don't need to set encrypt as well are we
moving away from Sakai oh okay yeah so
we will like we'll still have like even
when we switch to noise like will still
be will still have that problem of like
we have a connection we immediately want
to run encryption on it
because we don't have like oh I am also
already running over that secure yeah I
of the multi out of break down but I
think that's something like eventually
we'll probably look at getting smarter
about and saying like okay this initial
connection is WebSocket secure so I
don't need to run the encrypting
protocol like I don't need to handle
that for I think like right right now
like especially given the stage a lot of
this stuff is I think the trait it's a
much better trade-off to just broaden
our set of connectivity options and
worry about performance optimization
later because if that tree if we're
double encrypted what we're we're gonna
be slower but safer already but I'm
having more routes think from a from a
higher level is way more important we
don't solve double encryption ever
computers will just get faster anyway
and so will network connections so yeah
yeah a next artist is it's a stopgap
right now anyway so I think it's like a
problem we could probably just put and
say okay let's just take the hit on
double encryption and put that problem
down the road
also like I I become very skeptical when
we say something is a stopgap because
we've been we have some stuff got like
some stop gaps
still around and probably will be and
like even if we have this like the
centralized signaling thingy at some
point in the future
some people will still want to run
Stardust just to make it faster and I
feel there's another problem of like
threat modeling what could go wrong with
the not our encryption if we don't
double encrypt right because if we
double encrypt then it's basically like
people have this assumption or all
likely to be transports being based on
the pure id's and basically like
encrypted will with that around those
identities right and if we sort of like
ease those security guarantees in this
context I wonder if that would have some
ramifications at some point in the
future like what what could go wrong
with the like web socket layer
encryption like man in the middle base
on thirds that are there things like
that I would be on the side of double
encrypting just to be safe we can always
especially I think I talked to the vodka
and he said like we can always add this
like plaintext encryption later as an
afterthought yeah so basically like what
we can do is when we go when we upgrade
connections like we can give transports
upgraders and those upgraders will
determine what the upgrade path is or
whether it needs which encryption it
needs whether it's plain text or Sekai
or noise so we can change that
potentially based on context but yeah
the way I look at it is like ideally
what we would be doing in the future is
replacing start us with a relay server
and that relay server is going to be
running Sakaya or noise encryption we
probably aren't going to necessarily
have uh no we will
so like a being able to have a WebSocket
secure endpoint on that relay so that
WebSocket browsers can hit it so
basically doing the same thing like
we'll have to deal with there too but
we're running like a full circuit relay
and so this is like a stopgap of that
because we don't quite have that support
so yeah I think we just need to take the
hit and that will let us broaden out the
the transports that we do accept from
that start us server so that like TCP
could actually talk and dial to a
browser node over start us just for
remote prioritization feedback I have
met with two different groups in the
last week who both were saying that this
in browser connectivity is the number
one blocker for them in terms of their
there's they want to be able to ship
ipfs web apps over HTTP and that that's
gonna be their model for four years to
come right like you even once we get
native native IP fence which is still
talking about a couple of different
couple years just for you know the best
case you're one year for proof of
concept and then a couple of years for a
standardization and browser adoption
probably yeah three five seven years
possibly and so this ipfs over HTTP web
case especially browser to browser is
becoming more more part of what people
are gonna depend on one of the pieces of
feedback that i heard yesterday from a
group that i met with that have their
own proof of state blockchains the
developer the ecosystem they're building
out but an incubator accelerator so they
have a bunch of companies that are
building on top of the stack is that I
profess this one of the few projects in
the space that actually kind of speaks
directly to in browser as use case so
some of the other projects don't really
treat browser as a first-class customer
and they really thought that we did but
the problem was that it just does from
the foot I think the way they described
it was we treat it seriously but it just
doesn't work yet so they're like we love
that you treat it seriously
and then the Brahe you think of browser
running in browser should be first-class
citizen and we just need it the basics
to work and what's the basic
connectivity works we can build so much
more stuff on top of it so this is from
a you know the unblocking the people
that want to build on our stack and
really making our stack work first-class
for how people build and develop apps
today these connectivity block Chris are
just getting increasingly important for
us
a resolved
yep more fuel for the fire
maybe I can go briefly of the ground
I made a draft of grant for coming up
with native protocol handler for browser
extensions and it will probably land in
the plant sweeper soon but basically the
idea is to create a new API that enables
browser extension to register a handler
that is capable of returning arbitrary
bytes to the browser to the rendering
process and that's unlocks a lot of
interesting things of the value is for
the centralization with no longer give
us but also protocols locked out and
secure skuttlebutt could use this new
API for returning data fetched from
distributed network without relying on
some sorta like third-party service
local and offline use cases could be
built on top of that a lot of extensions
rely on some servers which act as a half
of the function like are responsible for
half of functionality and for idea fest
we of course would not be forced to run
local HTTP gateway for users who want to
very light experience just to upload
file or data file we would be able to
run embedded Josiah Fest in the regular
browser because that's the only missing
piece right now if you want to run ipfs
in Firefox or Chrome in the browser
extension you can run just like your
files in it
the problem is when you fetch it bites
you are you are not able to provide them
to to the renderer process to display
HTML
so we been talking with open-source
console consultancy called Galia
I believe Dietrich mentioned them before
right now I wrote a lot of like prior
art so we have those wet IP is where
regular website can see with register
this like handler which is just a
redirect to some web service somewhere
so those are like web-based protocol
handlers which require web Plus prefixes
for most of protocols another prior art
we have is in Firefox browser extensions
are able to put protocol handlers in
manifest of their extension and that
automates this redirect based
registration is still a fake protocol
because it's redirects to some other URL
so you need to have a server somewhere
who will handle the URI and finally we
had native handlers before we had one in
new on base brave before they switch the
chromium and we had this famous famous
proof of concept when we had Firefox
nightly with the keyword experiments
which was basically what we want from
this grant but the thing that we want in
this grant is that sort of a
functionality but for chromium based
vendors that's mostly because the
browser vendors who are most vocal about
most interests it's about enabling
artifice support our chromium based so
that's the plan for this grant is to
unlock that type of integrations I
should be posting this at some point
this week maybe next week
but basically we want to create a bi
specification which could be adopted by
other browser vendors so it should be
like generic not specific IP affairs it
should be general purpose Patrol handler
for browser extensions and then we want
as part of this branch we want any
implementation of this API as a set of
patches on top of chromium code base
which browser vendors such as break
could apply and there will be like
additional resources so this grant will
be not only like interested from the
grant like grant creating perspective
but also if anyone is interested in
history or what's actually possible on
the web platform it will have like a lot
of resources and like list of
chronological chronological private art
so I feel it would be interesting
resource I will link it later when it's
published something definitely power
yeah that's it there's a fantastic
sparking into the history of how many
people have tried to do something like
this and one of the things that we're
doing here is kind of an end run around
browser vendors that are you know the
big browser vendors are not really
interested in adopting this type of
really powerful functionality you know
even in even in Mozilla the the pushback
from an engineering and engineering
groups also the security groups around
some of these we're pretty strong and
and and not without good reason right
like really really well founded concerns
and that's something there where we're
using this to really push on the
boundaries of that when you have
partners in browsers smaller browsers
but still big enough they're are willing
to do that experimentation take those
risks so they're kind of we're
short-circuiting not a bit where if we
can get something landed in chromium and
this will be our first our first
experiment and getting kind of code
landed in chromium as well related to
this type of functionality and this is
gonna be something where it might even
be a hard gnome from that perspective
would be very interesting to see how
open source premier project is when it
comes to evaluating something that is
off by default and only enabled for say
brave or one or two other browsers but
not used by crib
you create this environmental in the
pressure on on these organizations
around how they make decisions how they
evaluate functionality and how they make
those trade-offs around a developer
adoption and a number a number of other
things so it's a pretty nuanced to play
in in in figuring out where our levers
are for having influence in these
organizations and be able to have
somebody like the Collier who's really
interested in both that model but also
have the keys when it comes to being
embedded in those communities and
landing code is really really powerful
so it's been great to talk with them
Lytle I think getting getting their
feedback on this earlier rather than
later would be really good idea so I
wouldn't worry about putting it into the
repo first to be able to share with them
they share with them and get their
feedback because it's gonna be an
iterative process to be able to figure
out what the right format is that both
meats are or I could post have grants
kind of format requirements and also
something that has that level of detail
and structure that they need to go and
do the work
so I'd say first off get this in front
of them and get feedback there this is
fantastic thanks for writing this up
while we have you here I believe
unstoppable demo browser what's that the
video yes yeah I met with a unstoppable
at Eve Denver and had an interesting
conversation we've talked with them
before and but the the new wrinkle was
you know I did a talk kind of about our
ecosystem group and also the browser
work that we're doing at the
decentralized network summit the day
before with Denver and they were there
and there they were basically like this
you just talked about you just did our
talk for us these are the kind of things
that we want to see happen with with IP
fussing and and and distributed web your
browsers so they're very interested in
doing this kind of work they shipped
that demo browser which has a supple
domain stuff built in but also has a
built-in ipfs node it also has built in
several built-in gateway options so it's
worth
yeah actually just going like you you
load the browser and the first thing you
see is this banner across the bottom
that's like you don't have an IP FS no
running you should run one to be able to
support the distributed web but then if
you actually go turn on your I think
that's desktop you're like make sure
you're like I gotta stop writing what
the hell like I have a node you know
detect a local node they actually run a
node in browser fat just so fascinating
so it's pretty and I don't really dug
into the source code at all like did
they just bundle Jesus IP IP fast and
run that node are they running a CO node
I don't know so it would be worth
spelunking a little bit I filed an issue
in their repo around implementing our
addressing spec and there they replied
immediately to me an email saying hey
yeah we'll totally look at that but they
really they really they said that they
want for this browser to be a place for
people to experiment so this is
something where we can maybe you know
will work and and and talk about yeah
and reallyy demo and hack on some of
what chromium underlying chromium
changes would be like the the weird bit
is like you know this is I think
electron based it's not like they forth
brave or something like that so you
don't get the full browser but you know
one of the basic functionality is there
so really I think socializing and
highlighting these type of experiments
really helps us push them you know
socialize with the boundaries of
what about other web browser could do
what what could look like help network
if they implement the addressing spec we
we then now now have a desktop browser
that you can download that has a
protocol handler which would be pretty
amazing and also might help prove out
some of those protocol handler paths
right multiple invitations is always
gonna be nice so even if we say have the
native Cryme one that's going you know
maybe be a longer term project of Gallia
but then we have something like this
where we have an experimental vehicle
that we could play with and fork like we
could even fork this and just ipfs put
an IP pencil go on it and play with it
and push stuff out there and have their
services built in we could we could I'm
really interested in having lots of
these lots of these experiments in name
resolution be easily accessible to
developers right now these these feel
like both ENS and unstoppable are
different ways of solving this naming
problem and I think we're gonna see a
lot of competition and experimentation
in that place over time there's not one
winner there might be a pattern that
emerges and standard standard around
this and talking with them anything very
they're also interested in kind of
standards track participation as well so
worth worth checking out
I told them I putted them at the at the
list for I confess weekly and I said
we'd love to have them demo and
introduce the the browser to the
community talk about how it was
implemented in the future so hopefully
they'll they'll do that we'll be able to
have a demonstration from from them in
front of our community especially like
having them as an super early adopters
of our dressings back and very smooth
transition to the next one the browser
design guidelines that's like it is the
perfect test ground for that and this is
something that between between moving
and the Neath Denver and then team week
I'm probably about a month behind on
where I want to be with that I need to
do a final pass Jim is starting to move
on to the mobile mobile IP fest design
research that grant just got approved
but that's that's more like mobile as a
big circle with browsers as a sub mobile
browsers as a subset of that work so
broadening the scope there but also some
some stuff related to browsers but for
the the first one though
guidelines I still need to do the final
pass on the content fix up the
iconography section because I think we
made some changes there fixture your
feedback and comments little and I said
I need to integrate those changes and
then I needed basically communicate it
Jared right up a post about it yeah I
believe I did like a pass before team
okay
just around visuals I was just very
skittish about like sort of like having
fake addresses which are not actually
following our a dressings okay though I
added like comment for for every
occurrence I found so that may be
helpful
another thing identified is sort of like
maybe not a blood so like a blank spot
around iconography its distinction
between mutability and immutability
that's maybe even like a wider like a
separate research how people understand
that or how to communicate that to
people because a lot of people don't
even know that this distinction exists
and like in ipfs we got like replacing
the green padlock means not only
indicating like integrity guarantees not
only like the transport encryption
guarantees but I believe also which sort
of should have a way of telling this is
immutable address or this is an address
that may like the content may change
yeah like like um like there's this it's
basically a new trust model it's not
even like a wrinkle or change the
existing trust model it's a type of
guarantee of content validity that is
not rooted in external trust systems but
is more like internal integrity and the
trust model is out-of-band and that's
something that we really wrestled with
and went back and forth on and
ultimately I think like for this for the
purposes of this first version narrowing
the field of view to be able to focus on
like what's the minimum set of thing
that browser should this should design
for in a way that also respects and
protecting the user and like as as much
as possible it's really a hard it's hard
to draw boundaries there without really
boiling the ocean so I think it's
narrowing the field of view for the for
each one of these and making them as
bite-sized as possible it's gonna be
yeah especially given the fact like for
this demo browser we can see like for us
aside give us project we know that ipfs
namespace is immutable and IP NS
namespace is mutable and for us it's
just like like water for fish we don't
even know it's there
however when people start implementing
it that they put like mutable names in
immutable protocol name and also like
regular people don't really know what
either of those things is so probably
instead of like relying on protocol
scheme or I love that example to like
what you're sharing right now where you
have the mutable name but then the tab
title is actually be immutable address
space the cid is like immutable
snapshots but that snapshot is published
under this mutable name yeah I don't
like the call too much these are the
questions that we really have to answer
like in order to be able to achieve mass
adoption we need to be able to figure
like we need to get that part of our
house in order and communicated really
well and really well understood in a way
and have the resources for people who
are thinking about adopting to be able
to have them make these evaluations
especially if they're good they're
designing for millions and millions of
users it's super important it's not
gonna be easy they can take a long time
we're not to get it right the first time
but you know me trying to reduce the set
of decisions that people have to make
even if it means we make some trade-offs
it's gonna be the most important bit
let's here I think the only thing the
browser topic
browser vendor l an update on Oprah yeah
so they we have a latest bill from them
I think that they were still mostly on
on track for releasing pretty soon but
we're you know playing this dance with
with the release of 0.5 of call us and
getting the CID and said you mean sport
and soda main gateways support really
well settled having that those changes
propagate amongst to all the the big
gateway partners to it was really
important so right wait play play
playing this race condition kind of game
to be able to figure out when the right
time is not what the minimal set of
changes are but we're still it generally
on track for or in the next few months I
think that's the next item is me as well
we're thinking about a browser and
connectivity meetup at some point I
think that a bigger group probably
meeting at the IETF 108 meetup in
mid-july in Madrid
so ITF 107 is in Vancouver next at the
end of next month in March and just
looking at the the tracks there I think
it'll be fantastic to have all of the
browser folks the the lead p2p folks
especially even if not participating
these discussions coming in to be
parting the hallway conversation and and
lurking and getting to know the people
that are making these decisions there
are whole tracks around distributed
networking and a lot of these like
technologies that we're kind of hacking
around or building on top of because the
underlying transport doesn't meet our
needs decisions about how those
underlying transports are being made in
these meetings so having us be part of
that conversation is really crucial to
pl having and having that influence in
that industry where our use cases are
really well heard and being part of that
the arc of how that technology changes
over longer periods of fun so I think
there's a lot of support for this and I
think we're gonna see I'm seeing more
and more of this bubble up in pfl
generally around the you know big in the
drama of being part of these
conversations it's one thing to try to
short-circuit that man which he'll still
try to do that as well we're gonna do
that in a couple of big ways this year I
think but really these are parallel
tracks from from an influence and and
and change making change that we want to
see in the work
standpoint so being being part of that
conversation while we're also
short-circuiting or hacking around
really helps them understand our vision
so and and and our needs and where where
the current transport level transports
aren't meeting our needs so I'd
encourage you to go look at the t's IETF
107 schedule so if you look at the day
by day schedule for Vancouver and you
see like the set of working groups that
are meeting and you're like I was like
yep I'm gonna be in that one and that
one and that one and I actually
cancelled I was planning to go to 107
and I decided to cancel because it's
just it really would require I think
taking the whole week off to be able to
be present in those conversations and to
be able to really learn and really soak
it in so something that I'm really I'm
gonna recommend for this particular
group if we're doing if you're doing
work on J sled p2p if you're doing for
the whole if you to be generally should
probably be there but are specifically
our work around our browsers and and and
network in networking and connectivity
in the web content context this is
something where I'd almost say like
let's just take take the entire week not
take it off but take off our ipfs hat
and just really sit these conversations
in Madrid in July and soak it all in and
learn who the people are how they
communicate with each other how the IETF
works at the beginning of every ITF work
they actually have like a newbies Meetup
the day before the conference starts
where they have like an introduction to
have the ITF words so things like that a
really nice from an operating
perspective but I'd love to see as many
people as we can from this group be part
of that and then what we'll probably do
is maybe you know tack on three days at
the beginning of that to be able to do
browser-specific hacking work but that's
that's tentative for now but kind of
block that out on your calendar for I
think it's mid to late July in Madrid
the way July 25th through 31st nice yeah
Hugo demoed all this amazing in browser
and extension level testing framework
last week how does that affect us Lionel
do you have any idea we have this
testing matrix of all these things that
we wanted
eventually we haven't got there yet are
any of these testing scenarios for
desktop or extension or web unlocked for
us from the work that Hugo did is there
any transition that we need to be able
to make there yeah so most of our
modules are like most of jaeseok is
using edger and as you was using karma
which hugo aims to replace and you know
and he effectively like wants to the
moment he's able to do the same things
in this new runner he wants to switch to
that because it's like not only much
smaller like it there's like the the
difference is not that visible but if
you like look how complex the old
solution was and how small and
relatively elegant the new one is it's
like no brainer for us to switch so I
think a lot of switching will happen
behind the scenes just as you're
switching to this new runner without the
need for doing anything for activist
companion specifically I'm excited
because it's for the first time enables
us to run tests against actual web
extension runtime instead of like seen
on mocks and stops the problem is right
now those those IP is like the runner
works on the in chromium and I I want to
demo like I have a cure to to run tests
those will be like effectively a
separate set of tests but those would be
like a smoke test similar to what we
have for web UI like for end-to-end
testing very small surface but they
guarantee that nothing breaks along the
long long pipeline of things that happen
but that will not land until Firefox
supports its presence mainly because the
key value of that test suit is to detect
differences between Firefox and chromium
the differences in behavior like web
extension ABI is like they don't even
agree on the name how API surnamed and
the same API may take same arguments but
behave differently and we had that over
and over and that would be the value for
companion for web UI we probably would
switch to we would not use the runner
but we may switch from puppeteer to that
new underlying library just because it's
more reliable like so far we have no
problems with puppeteer so it's like low
priority
that's probably its most like long story
short as you will eventually switch and
it's not much to do on our end mostly on
companion hands that's great and ready
companion actually be able to test
companion in a real browser environment
this it's really really nice
I'm also interested in his work to get
this this infrastructure running with
test grounds so then we can say you know
spinner spend a whole lot of lot of
browser events yeah and also when Google
Chrome releases this new version of API
is manifest feel free like all the tests
for that it from the baguette code will
start we will use if he goes framework
just to run in that specific actual
runtime cool I added it to the highlight
so I've added two things to the
highlight section one is that I've
released the new version of IPS
companion to the beta Channel and it's a
version that is addressing our problems
with chrome webstore so there's a an
issue with never I made one issue
because I would be creating issues over
and over again and now I just have this
one and I reuse it for all the problems
we have for Chrome Web Store
so it's basically what happened is that
Chrome Web Store
now ask for permission justification for
every permission that your extension ask
for it's pretty good idea in theory but
in practice it's super automated and
when you get rejected you don't get like
human readable feedback it's just like
robot saying hey you did not comply to
our privacy policy please fix it but
they don't say what luckily we had some
help from Simon from Google and we were
able to fix those issues I made the new
better release which removed unused
permissions and hopefully will pass the
review it takes time about a week to get
approved so the moment the beta is
released we will be able to reuse the
same descriptions for stable Channel why
it's important because the Chrome Web
Store so far is used as a distribution
platform for all the chromium based
browsers including Microsoft edge brave
and if you take alone crazy yeah and if
you take a look at our user base so it's
like 26 K of users on Chrome Web Store
compared to like 2k on Firefox Store so
yes it matters
well I don't think it will get better
Google is investing into manifest to be
free I probably mentioned that previous
calls but in case someone wants to read
more about what manifest v3 is we got
this properly numbered issue in ipfs
companion repo and I try to like follow
up developments related bugs and things
like that we'll see what happens when
Google decided like
when chrome webstore decides we only
accept manifestly free extensions that
would probably mean brave opera edge and
all the other chromium based browsers
that still supports the old API will
either provide own stores or will a
community based store will be created we
remains to be seen and another update
and shout out to Henry for fixing our
chocolate chip package which I had no
idea what went wrong but he fixed it so
I have no idea either it just worked
it's green all checks are passing if yes
a background is like chocolate is like a
package manager for Windows right and we
got a package for ID because they stop
there so if you are using that you can
install latest version desktop with
these commands and then you will get
updates over time I believe that's it
from my end where we are with the IP
first desktop signing on Mac Mac OS it's
a good question I believe we install
ipfs on Mac yet yes unless you are using
Catalina then you have nasty pop I
believe we have we just need to invest
time into that notarization step because
we are already signing I like I try to
understand prior out in our continuous
integration setup and we are already
like we already have keys we are already
signing and signing happens on our CI so
every time we make a release it gets
signs then there's this additional step
suddenly I don't have mark so it's just
me reading about stuff but probably will
should be possible to try to leverage
our CI infrastructure even if we don't
yeah in the short term I have a Mac
Developer and environment in the
certificate and all that account and all
that kind of stuff so I can if you can
send me whatever steps you know are the
next one so then I can do the
notarization step yeah I I'm not sure if
we can mix so if it's nine by one key
you cannot notarize using the other but
I think we got the credentials in like
shirt fold so okay nice I'll probably
after the code okay
so much so much cool stuff we have the
too much cool stuff problem problem yeah
really I think that cats act that
catallena it necessarily no one's
burning gonna burn us that we need to be
that one sent what said whatever you
info you have after after the call and
then I'll just follow the rest of the
citing steps because I've done that
birth I did it for mobile stuff I've
never done for desktop one but I'm
familiar with just how crappy and
terrible that workflow and those you
eyes are all right nice to see you all
take care bye-bye